welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show excited to be
joined by returning guest
niraj kapoor today norah is an expert
sales coach and trainer
speaker and he's a best-selling author
of two sales books niraj welcome back my
friend how's it going
um it's great to see you again i think
last time we spoke you've just become a
daddy
exactly right yeah so it shows um how
long the show's been going now because i
think yeah like you say it was just just
before he was born and now he's nearly
five months old
so um yeah nice little milestone and
good to have you back man how's business
all good
yeah i mean it's quite interesting
because business my business has changed
twice this year
so in march initially in lockdown
everything changed because
all my speaking events went and all my
sales training
in the corporate world disappeared very
quickly overnight it's kind of scary
but i think i'm lucky because i've been
through two previous recessions
um that's how old i am so
i rebuilt it very quickly and within six
weeks i was back on my feet
i was doing fantastic up until september
and then in september a lot of my
clients
kind of went through their bounce back
loans and most of their savings and
they're getting a little edgy at the
moment
so i've had to kind of transport a bit
less
coaching one-to-one and doing more group
coaching which is more cost effective
for people
and running more master classes nice i'm
doing two master classes a month at the
moment
one for my clients and then one for the
public so again you've
you've got to adapt you've got to learn
how to pivot your business according to
times that's very very important
good to hear and agreed yeah you've got
to adapt with what's what's going on man
so look
let's jump straight into it the topic
for today's conversation
is how we can never have as a bad sales
month
again which i think is going to be
extremely useful both for myself
and everyone watching or tuning in today
because i know i've had my fair share of
months where i've got to the
last week of the month perhaps even the
last day of the month i'm scratching
about thinking
i need another five grand i need another
three grand i need another grand to hit
my target to hit my bonus or beat my
quota to get my sales commissions
and um essentially not be depressed for
the weekend ahead or whatever is coming
or whatever i had planned and i'm sure
many business owners and sales people
alike
have been in that same boat so we're
going to be talking about all the
all the mindset the mindset you need to
adapt the behaviors you need to adapt
and some actionable tips that we can
actually put into play to
ensure it never happens again so perhaps
we could start from the top and the raj
and you can give us an idea of
some of the main reasons why you believe
that business owners or sales
professionals actually fail to
hit their sales targets in the first
place
well there's a number of reasons why the
first thing is
most sales people don't consider sales a
job
they don't um a lot of sales people get
into sales
because they want to earn some money
very quickly a lot of people get the
sales because they want to go on a nice
holiday buy some nice clothes
but very few people get into sales i've
spoken to very few people in my life who
said you know what
i'm going to work in sales and have a
great career even when i started in
sales i just did it to help pay the
mortgage
i didn't really you know it was never a
dream of mine to work in sales i
i speak to very few people who think
that way and it's really important to
understand sales as a professional sound
you know so i'll give you good example
so my mother
spent three years becoming a
physiotherapist uh my brother
spent a couple of years becoming a
teacher and a tennis coach and he still
goes to wimbledon every year he goes to
tennis matches every year he goes to
tennis events
every single year in fact this year's
the first year he hasn't been to
wimbledon
you know my father and my brother-in-law
again doctors they spent
nine years of their profession and my
father even until the age of 70 years
old
was still going to conferences still
learning his craft
yet very few sales people continually
learn their craft
they might get half a day or one days or
a few days training at the beginning of
their career
but they regularly get involved in
ongoing training and one of the most
important things to do
is keep learning every day that's right
every day
not once a week or every single day and
then taking action that's one of the
most
important things you could be doing got
it no that's that's a great point and
like you say it's something that i
neglected early on in my
my sales career myself um didn't
basically fail to fail to read thought i
kind of already knew it all failed to
listen to podcasts and like you said
it's something that's
that's certainly helped me um and why is
that why is that an important point in
the rash for um because i think this is
gonna be useful both for sales and
business owners alike
um why should we be reading or listening
to podcasts or consuming video content
how does that help us how is that
actually going to going to make us
perform better and day-to-day because
these are just notes on paper or people
talking right
of course well there's two reasons why
first of all every successful
salesperson i know every successful
sales company i work with
the best people are listening to audio
books
they're listening to podcasts they are
reading books they are asking coaches
for advice they are getting coached
these are the most successful people and
pretty much companies all around the uk
and world
okay and the second reason is don't
forget i spent 23 years in corporate
london i spent eight years running sales
teams
and although sales has changed more in
the last say two years
than the last 10 years there are certain
things that have not changed
and one of the things that hasn't
changed you want to be successful
the more you learn the more you earn
that's just the way it is in any
profession
yeah it makes sense um and like you say
sales is one of those
things where you can jump in and you can
get stuck in it straight away you need
no formal qualifications or anything
like this and like you touched on with
your parents that
they were constantly learning as part of
their jobs it's one of those jobs you
can get stuck
straight in and you don't necessarily
have to do it but it's something you've
got to actually like you say you've got
to make the choice yourself
to spend the time invest the time in in
your own learning your personal
development
to to get better so are there any other
any other reasons
personal development to one side um any
other reasons or key reasons that you
found from your experience and imagine
why we fail to hit our sales targets
mindset is a very big one and it's
something that people
really don't think about much not in in
the last kind of six months people are
more concerned about their mental health
which is very important
and we're not in a situation where you
know let's be realistic sales people
thrive
well in an office environment in a
culture
it's not quite the same at home and
sadly a lot of people
you know they finish work and then you
click your finger
and you're at home there's almost no
transition there's no queue at home
there's no you know you normally need a
time after a long day at work because
let's be realistic sales is a tough job
i'm not going to sit here and say sales
is a great laugh
you know it's hard work and sometimes
some days it's just especially near the
end of the month
it's very unbearable at times it just is
that's the nature of the profession we
get paid well for the success
therefore we have to deal with the
pressures of it and a lot of sales
people don't understand that
and i see a lot of sales companies and
sales people just
you know picking up the phone going okay
another day
that's not how you pick up the phone you
have to get your head right
so the first thing every sales person
should have
is a vision board and what a vision
board does is it's like an
a3 or an a4 board of visuals and it
consists of two parts
the first part are things you've
achieved in your life sam
which is like great success it can be
awards you've won
it can be you know a lovely car you have
it just wants to be
things great success you've had in life
okay
and the second part of the vision board
should be things you want
and they can be materialistic things
like a nicer home a nicer car a dream
holiday
and of course personal things like you
want to get a new dog you want to have
more kids
whatever that is whatever your dream is
whatever your visuals are
you need to have those on a vision board
and i'll tell you why
when you get four or five rejections in
a row which every sales person does
it hurts when it's three o'clock in a
friday afternoon you want to hit the pub
you don't want to work anymore it
happens the vision board keeps you going
further it's true
a vision board really helps keep you
focused and one thing sales people
really do lack is focus i'm never going
to question the sales person's
work ethic because most salespeople i
know work fairly hard they do
yeah um but they really do lack focus
and mindset's a serious problem with a
lot of salespeople it really is
i think you're exactly right and we've
all we've all been i certainly have
of um perhaps thinking i need to make a
certain call or i need to contact
someone i need to get in touch with
someone or follow up
and perhaps i'm in a bad mood because
something outside of sales outside of my
job has
affected me and that's also put me in a
bad mindset so i think oh this is a
waste of time and then just go into it
in an angry manner
and that then reflects your tone
reflects to the customer you're talking
off which in turn might end the way
there might piss them off
which is just going to do you a whole
bunch of harm so i really like the idea
that you've got this board perhaps in
your home office or your room wherever
you're working from
it kind of gives you that positivity you
need i guess to give you a bit of a buzz
bit of kick up the back side and
realize put everything in perspective
while you're actually doing the work
and um perhaps give that bring that
positivity back
so on that note um because i'm
completely with you
the mindset's quite quite an important
piece of the puzzle
and um it's not something we talked
about a great deal on the show so are
there any
which kind of links this as well are
there any behaviors
that we should set in place um perhaps
per month or perhaps per day or perhaps
that have been useful for yourself
um that can just ensure that we've got a
regime
um that means we're doing x what we're
doing while we're doing zed
so we've got these lists of tasks
throughout our day that can ensure
actually doing the right things to then
make sure we've got
we're hitting our targets whether that's
splitting things down into days or weeks
or months
whether it's just micro tasks that
you've found have been a useful way to
ensure that you're not there like we
were saying before in the last few days
of the month
panicking because a lot of people are
really i had so many phone calls
yesterday from sales people so many
messages saying
i really don't know how to do this i
don't know how to do this like okay well
where are you at the moment
and they tell me i'm like okay just that
curiosity talk me through your morning
routine what do you do
and sales people have a terrible morning
routine sam they wake up
what's the first thing they do they look
at their phone they check the news or
even worse they check their emails
when you start the day just spend a
moment or two in gratitude be grateful
you've got a roof over your head
be grateful you have a decent salary be
grateful
for all the things you have do not
please ever check news because it's
always negative
do not be checking emails first thing in
the morning and giving your time off to
somebody else
the morning needs to be about you before
you start work that means eating a good
breakfast
not eating a bad breakfast it means
having one coffee not three coffees
i personally think it's a great idea
before you start work
to get some exercise in i go for a
morning walk every day for 20 minutes
it's the best thing i do it just gets my
mind clear for the day
i'm not checking emails by the way i'm
going for a morning walk
i then come back to my desk i spend half
an hour reading a book on personal
development
or i'll read a sales book and then just
before i pick up the phone or just
before i do anything i listen to some
rock music for five minutes because
listen to bon jovi listen to bruce
springsteen listen to aerosmith
that gets me in such a good mood it gets
me all fired up and
that means that boom come here the clock
i'm ready to fire i'm ready to go and
that's a great way to start my day
notice i haven't said i check email
i haven't checked the news i haven't
checked instagram i haven't checked
facebook i haven't checked
my text messages my whatsapp nothing 8
o'clock
i've started work and nothing and nobody
bothers me till at least half nine
and that is something i'm so strict
about and has helped me achieve more in
life
and that's what sales people should be
doing as well not checking your facebook
first thing in the morning not checking
your text messages
these things are just distractions from
your job okay
get yourself in the right frame of mind
get yourself straight into work
and you'll be amazed at what you can
achieve
yeah i i it kind of reminds me of my
younger days actually in a rashford ride
especially when i first died in sales so
i was probably only 20 21
and um you know it's like when you're
younger when you're a teenager when
you're in the 20 early 20s drinking way
more than you should
rocking up probably nine o'clock or in
my case a bit late and then by that time
like you said you're already in a
slightly bad mindset and you're not
ready to do things whereas now i'm
slowly shifting to the
the place where i'm making lists the day
before and the tasks i need to do for
the day ahead trying to do a bit of
exercise like say maybe going to the gym
in the morning
and then like you say by 8 or 9 a.m i've
got my list of things to do i'm all
refreshed
already fueled and and ready with what
what we need to do so
yeah routine is a great great thing and
like you say distraction i think we've
all been guilty of checking emails
checking texts whatever is first in the
morning or checking social media
so definitely if you can get yourself in
that good headspace that makes perfect
sense really so you can attack the day
and get on with what you need to to
actually make things happen
um and on that on that notion do you
have any
do you have like a structure to your day
that you think could actually help
people or structure to the week
or is it just a case of kind of prepping
what you need to for the day ahead in
the rash
um in terms and obviously this is this
is quite a generic question because
everyone
depending on what we're selling and
depending on how we sell or how we do
business is going to be slightly
different
but have you got any tips or insights
for how we can actually structure our
week in terms of making calls for
set for example some people that have
come on the show
said look we set an hour an hour a day
to do cold calling or cold email
we might do half an hour for social
media for linkedin and social selling
and that kind of stuff or we'll spend
some time in the morning to respond to
inbound queries we've got any
yeah any any structure ideas from that
front yeah
so a lot of sales people that i speak to
will start their day usually in a team
meeting to start off with
and that will last about half an hour
you should always have a team meeting
first thing in the morning
and every sales manager and every sales
director and every business owner
should always have a team meeting with
their staff first thing in the morning
um a to kind of air any concerns or
questions people have
but also to see that you know what your
staff's goals are for the day
and if a salesperson says i'm going to
make some phone calls today that's not
good enough
you have to say i'm going to make you
know 10 phone calls today
i'm going to make uh one hour of
linkedin content for the day
i'm going to do one hour phone calls
this afternoon i'm going to try and
upsell these
you should know exactly what you want to
achieve each day that's absolutely vital
now personally for prospecting um i find
that by lunchtime
really about two o'clock at the latest
people are a bit sick and tired
sam of staring this tiny little hole in
their laptops and computers they are
because you've been two or three
webinars you're doing meetings back to
back on zoom or skype or google hangouts
or microsoft team meetings
as soon as lunch time occurs what do
people do they go straight onto their
phone
and they're checking social media and
looking at their apps so by two o'clock
people are a
bit burned out by technology now i love
technology
i'm not going to criticize it but you
have to have a certain
you can't have it continually all day it
does affect your mental health
so by two o'clock to three o'clock most
people
i know are happy to receive phone calls
and that is
generally when i do my prospecting most
days it's two o'clock to three o'clock
it's quite rare
like today because i want to speak to
you that i'm not doing it but two
o'clock to three o'clock
is vital okay now what i'm finding is
between three o'clock and four o'clock
a lot of prospects are taking advantage
of being at home and picking up their
kids from school because a lot of them
have kids
and so you're not gonna get hold of a
lot of people between three and four
and then between half four and six
o'clock most often are back online again
so again
i'm making phone calls then and people
are always surprised how much i prospect
but
i'm a business owner and i'm lucky that
okay i got a lot of inquiries from
linkedin
i have clients who are very loyal to me
and keep booking with me because i get
them results
however i still have to prospect every
day i still have to follow up i still
have to upsell
so many of the things that sales people
do i have to do as a business owner as
well
so two o'clock to three o'clock and half
past four to six
be prospecting have the phone here and
be on the phone
because it's a great way to connect with
people always
yeah a nice bit of advice i like that
i've never really thought of those those
hours like you said i guess it's just
before
a lot of us have to pick up our kids
from school or do other bits and pieces
in the afternoon so that's that's
interesting and on on that note mirage
have you got any
any advice for how we can actually stay
focused because like you say a heck of a
lot of us the majority of us now are
having sweat from home and makeshift
offices
and so forth and like you say if you've
got partner living in the house or if
you've got kids or any other
distractions it's so easy
to get mixed up with i've just got to do
this little bit of hoovering or i've got
to turn the tv off or i've got to make
the kids some dinner
all that kind of stuff have you got any
um advice on what's worked for you in
terms of staying focused
um do we just lock ourselves in a room
and put a padlock on and say look don't
come in until 5pm tonight
that's okay to do you have no kids but
if you have
it's not quite that simple um so for
example uh
my sister and her brother my
brother-in-law's running on nhs he's
working all day
my sister is learning ironically all day
today
so my nephews are at my house and when
you have a seven-year-old and a
nine-year-old in her house
you can't say to them listen guys just
do some work all day i'm busy
their brains don't function like that so
what i do is i give them little drips
and drabs
so for example this morning i took a
break at 11 o'clock i went outside and i
kicked the football for 15 minutes with
my nephew
as a brick came back inside worked to
lunchtime
at lunch time we played this thing
called fortnite some computer game
um apparently it's very popular with
young kids so he's teaching me how to
play fortnite he's amazing at it i'm
going
this is actually really quite
complicated but yeah we're enjoying it
now i i'm with you till three o'clock
and i'm gonna hang out with him
play about football quarter past three
then from half three until five o'clock
i gotta work i gotta make my phone calls
i gotta do my linkedin prep you know
so my day split into various chunks but
every time i take a break
i'll spend it with my nephew so you can
spend that with your child
or your dog or your partner it's okay to
take those breaks throughout the day but
i'm not spending on facebook seeing how
many likes i have yeah
yeah i want to see what our ex partners
from 20 years ago doing
i don't get involved in that world
because that just distracts from me
and the second thing is when i'm working
all my notifications are off
so just before we started this call you
know i showed you my phone
everything is off email is off there's
nothing that's going to distract me all
i care about is giving you
and your listeners as much value as i
possibly can everything's off
i am so focused right now it's
incredible so by turning notifications
off turning email off
you'll be amazed at how much work you
can get done really brilliant really
amazed
and the third thing is at lunch time i
know people are going to be checking
their
social media and apps no matter what but
it's just really good to get outside
nature even if it's raining just take an
umbrella
get out of the house because if you're
finishing work at five or six
and then all of a sudden you're still in
the same house you haven't got time to
process that
so it's really important to get out in
the house at least twice a day
even for a walk if you have a park
nearby or a lake nearby
even better if not just get out of the
house and go for a walk
it really does make a big difference you
know i really need to take that
and turn off notifications uh advice to
heart
i'm a bit of a linkedin addict and i i
pretty much
spend most of my time in between tasks
on linkedin so it's definitely something
i need to do and i'm sure there's a lot
of people tuning in that could
really value that there's something i
found useful that i've picked out from
what you've just um advised then is
i i found a lot of help structuring so i
use google calendars pretty religiously
so i log everything
on there otherwise it doesn't get done
really so i i
even like breaks for example if i'm i
try to go out
for lunch once uh once a week with my
fiance so if if i don't log in i'm gonna
put calls over there so even
small things like actually remember to
take breaks at certain times so i don't
book zoom calls over i found if i log in
the calendar
it's there it's going to happen and i
won't miss it so if you've got any tools
that you use on that front or you've
just got a super good memory
so you can just know that everything's
going to happen you can color coordinate
your calendar a lot of people find that
very useful
but i think because i spend so much time
up onto the screen
i do a lot of my planning um i'll show
you here
with an old-fashioned just an
old-fashioned notepad
i mean this is it it's not a fashion
notepad i'm actually doing my planning
every single day um i take a lot of
notes in a notepad
i plan my day in a notepad because you
know staring at the screen all day it's
not healthy and again there's a
really successful one of the world's
biggest peak performance coaches his
name is tony robbins
and he had a three-day event at the
weekend a lot of my friends were taking
part in it
and you know i went to the live event
four years ago and this guy has trained
serena williams
conor mcgregor hugh jackman some of the
biggest names in the world are sure i
mean
he's an incredible coach and he always
says success
leaves clues now i invest not in
coaching myself
i believe everybody's going to be
successful needs a coach and success
leaves clues so
what does successful people do they
write the diary every single morning
they take a lot of time every single day
for half an hour
just to plan and think not with a laptop
with a pen and paper um you know before
i go to bed at night i write the
gratitude journal for 10 minutes for all
the things i'm grateful for that day
even if i had a really bad day it's a
pen and paper
so even though i like i said i love
technology i embrace technology
but if you have technology all day long
it really does affect your brain
it does affect your mental health mental
health problems are
at an all-time high noise sam partly
because of stress partly because people
are concerned about their jobs
but also because people are using
technology all day long and you've got
to have a break from it
100 agree yeah you've got a you've got
to kind of take time understand what
your hobbies are and like you say
sometimes i've i've been in that boat
where i've had
zoom calls or phone calls or skype calls
back to back all day it gets to 5 p.m
half 5 6 p.m you just feel frazzled
because you've not set yourself breaks
and like i said you've not split up your
day
and allocated time to have a break go
out for a walk for a run gym
with your partner whatever you want to
do so yeah that's that's vital man
really good advice
um okay so moving aside from mindset and
daily behaviors
um if we move this into a more sales and
business focus so actually structuring
our pipeline
so we i've certainly been guilty of this
as as many things we've discussed today
um keeping things in my crm or my sales
pipeline
um that i know probably never ever going
to come in the cash is never going to
hit the client's probably never going to
go ahead with us i'm a bit better at it
these days
but how can we get strict with our
pipeline in the rash how can we keep our
pipeline tidy of only the opportunities
are actually likely to come in
so again we're basically not running
through the month um
on opportunities they're never ever
gonna land and result in business we're
only keeping it very strict
and all of those are juicy and likely to
come in within the month or within the
quarter
yeah sales people are very pessimistic
when it comes to their pipeline
but when it comes to closing they're
very optimistic
about that pipeline i think that's a
good way of putting it um you know just
because you get on well with a client
doesn't mean they're going to book and i
see a lot of sales people saying well i
know the client well they're kind of
interested so they're 80
and you've got to be sitting down with a
manager or coach once a week to be
talking through your pipeline this is
really important
because what you should be asking is
okay how many people are actually
involved in this decision
and sales people don't ask that question
often if they have one good relationship
and think that's it
but the fact is that now especially the
last three or four months
financial director is not involved in
the decision which
does complicate things more and makes
decisions much
longer to happen and financial directors
don't really care about your
relationship they're looking at the
bottom end they're looking at the money
side of things
quite often not you will have a
commercial director involved anyway
there'll be quite a few influencers
involved so that's why i keep saying the
more you
learn the more you earn because not
enough sales people understand
process so you got to understand how
many sales people or sorry
how many people are involved in the
decision making process
that is vital you have to make sure your
uncovered needs because sales people may
ask one or two questions
and then rush through this process to
talk about their product
or their service and you have to stop
rushing okay just take your time
you're not trying to get a deal here
you're not trying to get commission
what you're trying to do is build a
relationship and think long term
and not enough sales people think long
term sam they're often just thinking oh
my god it's almost the end of october
i've got to get this deal
it's almost end of the month i have to
hit my target and that's understandable
and i've been there so i get it however
you'll always achieve so much more
thinking long term
okay that's why i always say this is
people don't you know i get at least
i don't know 30 or 40 emails a day and
at least five
linkedin messages dick and sales people
just selling to me
most often ignore but every now and
again i'll say please read this article
on linkedin that i've written about how
not to sell
and don't contact me again until you've
read it and every now and again somebody
listens but most of the time they just
don't
all good points um and without going off
on a tangent
too much i mean one of probably the most
common objections that people are facing
i know i've had a fair few times right
now
is obviously when we're in covert the
pandemic's going on right now as we all
know
um it's lack of budget so the amount of
times you're here yes we really need
help with this we need we need help your
product or service but we just don't
have the budget right now have you got
any tips to
overcome that objection is it one that
we can overcome the rash or is it just a
case
that we haven't built enough value
during our exploration or
initial calls with the customer it's a
mixture of both quite often if somebody
says
i have no budget you're taught to
believe that's not true and i actually
disagree with that sometimes if a client
says to me they have no budget
i genuinely do believe them um i will
ask just
setting budget aside is there anything
else that i've missed
or is anything i should have asked that
i really haven't asked and i think it's
very important sales people aren't
humble enough sometimes
to admit to made a mistake it's very
important to do that you don't have to
be
macho and aggressive and have too much
testosterone a lot of sales people think
they have to do that
but you don't and so much of the
business i have won
it's not because i'm a slick sales
person because i'm not and it's
certainly not because i have an answer
to everything
it's because i put myself in a position
where i'm generally trying to help the
client
as much as i possibly can and i'm trying
to find a solution
and there has even been times i've said
to people you know what
i don't think my solutions for you i'm
going to recommend somebody else and
again sales people never do stuff like
that sales people never say you know
what i don't think there's anything we
could do
so you got to be honest and people will
always respect you more for being honest
however there are people who right now
genuinely
have no budget they just have no budget
then
some of them may not have budget 2021
and some of them generally
do not have a clue when they're going to
have budget because nobody has told them
and everything's in limbo and my advice
to people is when that happens
if you've asked all the questions you
can ask and there's definitely no budget
left
what you do is say look i can call you
back in three months or six months time
but let's be realistic look how much the
world has changed in the last week or
two
god only knows what's gonna happen in
three or six months so here's what i'd
like to suggest just so we don't lose
contact
and just so i'm giving you as much value
as i possibly can once a week
i'd like to send you some content it
won't be spam
but what i do is i'll send my most
popular linkedin article of the week
or i'll send some content that i've seen
one of my sales training friends write
i think is really good so i'm constantly
giving people value
and that means that in three months four
months or six months whenever i speak to
that person
i am further ahead than any of my
competition
because i am on their mind but if you
contact somebody in three or six months
having not spoken to them
you're starting it fresh and that's not
good such a nice tip
um no like you say i've i've you've
actually gone one step better than what
i do so normally i'll make sure that i'm
always connected to anyone that i have a
conversation with whether they've come
in through our website inbound
whether they've seen me on a social
channel on youtube or
one of our paid ads or seo however they
found us and got in touch and we're
having a conversation then
like you say if it turns out that we
can't do business right now i connect
with them on linkedin
so that way they're seeing my content
they're seeing me talk about digital
marketing giving actual advice and then
eventually they make we may strike up a
conversation they might reach back out
and we'll have a chat but you're going
one step better you're adding them to
your email list
and like you say you're saying look do
you mind if i send you weekly useful
content
which you're saying top of mind just
like connecting with people on linkedin
but you're going one step better
and um like i said it's a really nice
way to give people a refresher if you
actually help them with something useful
so when they do need the assistance
you're the one that they're gonna call
because you're the other one they think
of love that man because back at bear in
mind back in march i did this so back in
march the whole country was turned
upside down
i lost so much my business i had to
rebuild a lot of my clients said
we have no budget calls in three months
and i think as i've been through two
recessions previously
i know you do not wait for three months
you just don't you have to keep in touch
so i said look it's okay if i keep in
touch with you with content once a week
maybe once a fortnight but i promise not
to spam you
it'll all be valuable content and they
said yes so i kept doing that
and it meant that come june time i won
two new sales coaching clients
just because every single week i kept
sending invaluable content
none of my competition were none of my
competition were which really did
surprise me actually in all fairness
my competition were spamming them but
they weren't sending personal messages
they weren't saying by the way
yeah i saw this and thought of your
business oh by the way you told me time
management's a big problem
here's an idea i was thinking of and
again this is why i say the more you
learn the more you earn
um james altucher very successful
american entrepreneur
i'm joining his newsletter and he was
saying you know what was a really good
idea just every now and again think of
one or two ideas for your clients just
say i was thinking of you
and just send it to them and i actually
do that sometimes every now and again
i'll say to a client you know what
i know you mentioned time management's
an issue just here's a few ideas i
thought about
i just thought it'd be very helpful for
you not please contact me not
uh don't forget about me when you want a
sales trainer no
here's some value i was just thinking
about you i think we're really helpful
for you and so many times
the client comes back saying thank you
so much i go hey no problem
i'm glad it's abuse that's it i don't
try and sell
that's the worst thing you can do is you
ruin that goodwill
but you have to be doing these things
and that's why i'm always saying read
books
learn as much as you can take action
because when you read about other
successful people you get so many good
ideas yourself
which help you with sales success yep
love it and and to to add to that you're
being different to every other business
only ever
every other sales person out there
because the chances are if they're
trying to win your business
they're probably just calling you or
emailing you bumping a thread saying
are you ready to move ahead with this
have you got any more questions on this
what are your thoughts just the same
generic questions whereas if you're
actually
feeding people content that's useful
you're actually helping them you're
giving them tips you're giving them
insights you're giving them
new things to learn they've perhaps not
thought about so they're actually
thinking one this person's of value
two they must know what they're talking
about and three i've heard so much from
them they're going to be the one i reach
out rather than these other businesses
these other salespeople that are
spamming me like every few days or a few
weeks
so yeah love that it just shows you've
got to put the extra work in sometimes
and think outside the box be a bit more
unique with what you're putting out
rather than just doing what everyone
else is doing 100 look
i'm a buyer okay i bought i buy cars i
buy
life and i buy so many things and the
people i buy from not necessarily the
people i like the most although that
does help to a certain extent because
people do buy people
but at the same time um you know okay
good example i had to
i got divorced this year and i had to
buy life insurance again and i filled a
form in online
uh five different companies and i said
please call my mobile don't email me i
have too many emails
four people emailed me i just said don't
they just email me
the fifth person called me and he said i
was having a look at your linkedin
profile well done you've written two
books i said yeah i go oh it's amazing
what's it like always wanted to be an
author
we ended up chatting for a few minutes
and then we spoke business because he
made the effort of researching me
i bought life insurance off this company
80 pounds a month
probably worth about 10 to 20 000 to
their business the sales guy's going to
get a nice commission on that
because he spent about two minutes
looking at my profile and googling to
see who i was
that makes a difference and most sales
people don't do that
so little things like that do make a big
difference and by the way just every
listening understands
everything i'm teaching you is proven
here this isn't research from years ago
this isn't something i'm saying why
don't you try and see what happens this
is stuff that's working right now
because it works with me as a business
owner and it works with sales people and
business owners that i coach so
everything i'm teaching is proven got it
no nice one the raj and just uh
before we wrap things up to to make sure
we're actually maintaining
and keeping a healthy pipeline that is
full of ripe opportunities
is it just a case of going back to our
earlier chat on
mindset and behaviors is it just a case
of making sure we do those daily things
prospecting perhaps dedicating some time
to social selling to creating content
to reaching out to existing clients and
all that other good stuff is it a case
of just doing that consistently
or is there a bit more to it or
something that we haven't chatted about
yet
consistency and daily actions are way
more important than being brilliant
you know i don't know many salespeople
that are geniuses
um i do not are very successful people
the most successful people i know not
just in sales
but in business in general they do
things consistently
and they do the right things
consistently so they will prospect every
day
they learn every day they take action
every day they pick up the telephone
and by the way a lot of the things that
i'm mentioning like picking up the
telephone
i don't particularly like spending that
much time on the telephone i know for a
fact every single day i'm going to get
rejected so i have a lot of the fears
that most sales people have and a lot of
business owners have
the only difference sam is doesn't stop
me that's it i will not let fear stop me
and that's why i have my vision my
vision board is so strong
because my why is so big you know i know
what i want to achieve in life
and i know i'm going to achieve it if i
do these daily habits if i get up early
if i go for a walk and i don't get
distracted by social media
if i prospect every day if i research
people before i speak to them if i learn
all these things make a huge huge
difference to your sales
awesome no nice one there i really
appreciate you you coming on today
so to wrap things up are there any for
everything we've discussed are there any
specific tools that you recommend or
that you utilize to do all these or is
it like you say you just keep a track of
everything um in as notes in journals
and perhaps for email and things like
that
are there any um unusual unusual ways
you use to keep on track
i wouldn't say any unusual ways i mean i
mean really for me
people underestimate the importance of a
notepad and pen they really do in this
technical age they really underestimate
how much thinking and how much good work
you get done
you just turn the laptop off and just
you know you're not being distracted and
you're thinking in peace and quiet
you can like yourself i've got a full
page of my conversations so far
well true i mean even i prepared for
this last night i mean look at this it's
just a
full page of notes and i spent one hour
last night thinking how am i going to
give as much value as possible today
and that's all i did i didn't type it up
because i was sick and part of my laptop
i just wrote all the notes dying i mean
in terms of digital tools i use
linkedin is still the best tool in terms
of all the master classes i run i've
tried go to webinar i've tried
i've tried all different platforms zoom
is the easiest platform to use
i find it's also one of the most cost
efficient i just happened i've always
used skype
ironically enough but skype really
missed a trick in lockdown
and they failed to promote themselves in
such a big way whereas
zoom just went insane zoomer very smart
skype weren't
so you know whenever times are tough and
scary use the zoom
versus skype as an example until march
this year
people didn't talk about zoom very much
but now it's all we talk about
the zoom are very smart promoting
themselves when times are tough you have
to be out there promoting yourself
you have to be buying sales books you
have to be learning you have to be
getting
coached all these things make a
difference
and the most successful people i have
seen in sales
the most successful business owners i've
seen have these great habits
every single day naresh thank you so
much man really really appreciate you
coming back on
for a second episode and we'll have you
on again soon everyone you've been
tuning in to sam's business growth show
where we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs
from around the globe we find out their
story how digital marketing is happening
along the way and their exclusive tips
and insights to help you skyrocket your
sales and your business
mirage please do tell us how everyone
can learn from you how they can connect
with you
anything you'd like to promote good sir
no matter how many times i say to people
go to everybodyworksandsales.com or send
me an email
naradj everybody works in sales.com
people still go to my linkedin profile
i don't know why they feel very
comfortable doing that
um but connect with me on linkedin if
you want to learn more
uh go to youtube type in everybody works
and sales there's about 55
sales videos there you can learn from
they're all about 90 seconds each
so it's a really great way to learn
everybody works in sales
which is my first book which is a really
good book about overcoming failure
and having a career in sales and
achieving success and the easy guide to
sales for business owners
they're the best books you can read
right now on sales i recommend them
i also recommend the million pound
linkedin message by daniel disney
you know converted by matt sykes the
extremely successful salesman club by
chris
murray um selling boldly alex goldfein
um anything about jeffrey gitamar
pretty much anything read these books
they will make a huge difference to your
career i promise you they really will
all good books all good books we need to
get jeffrey on the show so hopefully
he'll be uh he'll be a future attendee
anyway thanks very much niraj really
appreciate you coming on again dude
absolute pleasure good to see you sam
and uh my best your family
cheers and everyone if you enjoyed the
show please do hit subscribe on your
podcast channel of choice if you search
sam's business growth show no matter
where you get your podcast we interview
business leaders each and every week
it's providing actionable tips to boost
your sales
grow your business and make best use of
digital marketing thanks very much tune
in
thank you are you tired of constantly
hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach that
brings idle clients
straight to you connect with sam dunning
on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts